Finding a person to fit on your team is a challenge, and only gets worse when you are trying to figure out what a Team's culture is, or find someone for another Development Team. This section will help with the 'soft' skills: those that transfer from position to position – and may not seem to have any real relevance to working any job, in some Applicant 's eyes. 

In-Office Skills: (THIS AREA NEEDS HELP)

One big item with any Development Team is the way they work: some places have large teams, divided into smaller tasks, others have small teams working on a single project. Ignoring the positives and negatives of each approach, you need to look at how the Applicant works best, and in what role. An Applicant that does not enjoy a Development Team's approach is an unhappy worker, Make sure that the specifics of a Development Team is there, and listen well to the way the Applicant responds to the questions on team work.

	Work Areas

Some of the smaller items-- to someone who is not a member of a Development Team – can have a huge effect on the suitability of an Applicant to a particular Team. The work space is a common question: some Applicants feel an open floor plan is wonderful for most of the time, but would prefer to have a quiet area available to work on a particular section. A look at how well an Applicant works in specific environments will go a long way to a Recruiter finding a successful match for their Applicant, and something that each Applicant needs to think about in terms of “I have to work in this environment every day: how will I feel about it after 6 months, or a year?”

Any eyesight or physical issues of sitting need to be noted, and addressed by a potential Development Team. Certain Development Teams already address these, using standing desks, large or multiple monitors, and other options.

	Team Culture

Each Development Team has its own, for lack of a better word, culture. This is everything from the way meetings are scheduled, through the way productivity is measured (and rewarded),to the in-office socialization vs responsibilities. This also includes how open the Team is to a mentor, either in that specific Team, or outside of it.

Some of the many tasks in Development Teams will include the rotation of duties, and this needs to be addressed. Are you, the Applicant, comfortable in taking on multiple roles? Is there an area where you feel weak? Recruiters can use these answers to find a position where the Applicant has the opportunity to learn from a mentor, and gain the skills and confidence, without placing them on a Development Team that needs someone who can shine in that area. 

	Attitudes and Activities

Most Applicants come to either a Recruiter or a Development Team with a positive attitude: this isn't what needs to be looked at. Can the Applicant pick up a new language or tool, or are they resistant to the idea? Either way, can they articulate their position, and be willing to listen to the other side? This is a tough one to judge, but any Applicant needs to be aware of their own thoughts on this.

As the world grows more connected, many Development Teams are taking on activities, both in- and out of office to support certain charities, or ideals they would like to see grow. Some of these may be occasional, such as a yearly game for charity, or more time-intensive, like working with or teaching at a coding camp. Applicants have to be aware of these activities, and have the opportunity to choose if they can participate in them. There are good reasons for choosing not to participate, and a Development Team needs to be honest about the 'voluntary' nature of these activities.

	Time and Timing

The time off system is occasionally odd in a Development Team enviroment: there may be times that everyone works 'late' in order to get something done, or someone who has just finished  fixing a large problem may want


Life Skills:

	Hobbies

	Side Projects

Showcasing Soft Skills
